samples/ipc/openamp: Introduce OpenAMP v2018.10 Remote Echo Sample (#11934)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: samples/subsys/ipc/openamp/remote_echo/README.rst

.. _openAMP_remote_echo_sample:

OpenAMP Remote Echo Sample Application
######################################

Overview
********

This sample application demonstrates how to integrate coding and building of
OpenAMP with Zephyr. Currently this integration is specific to the i.MX7 and
i.MX6 SoCs and the Master side (Cortex-A) should be running Linux with the i.MX
RPMsg and mailbox driver.

Building the application
*************************

.. zephyr-app-commands::
    :zephyr-app: samples/subsys/ipc/openamp/remote_echo
    :board: colibri_imx7d_m4 warp7_m4 udoo_neo_full_m4
    :goals: build flash

On the Linux side (Master) make sure you have the following Linux kernel config
options enabled:

.. code-block:: none

    CONFIG_HAVE_IMX_MU=y
    CONFIG_HAVE_IMX_RPMSG=y
    CONFIG_RPMSG=y
    CONFIG_RPMSG_VIRTIO=y

>     CONFIG_IMX_RPMSG_TTY=m

Reviewer: Is there any reason to enable IMX_RPMST_TTY driver?
Just check the .c file, it looks like it implements the echo, from meta-openamp, there is userspace demo which uses the kernel rpmsg_char driver, as @arnop2 mentioned, there is also kernel sample driver.
Here is the OpenAMP apps for the kernel sample driver: https://github.com/OpenAMP/open-amp/blob/master/apps/examples/rpmsg_sample_echo/rpmsg-sample-ping.c

It looks like only the virtio operation implementation is different, maybe you can reuse that application.

        status = "okay";
    };

    rpmsg: rpmsg{
        compatible = "fsl,imx7d-rpmsg";
        status = "disabled";
    };

    i.MX6SX - arch/arm/boot/dts/imx6sx.dtsi:
    mu: mu@02294000 {
        compatible = "fsl,imx6sx-mu";
        reg = <0x02294000 0x4000>;
        interrupts = <0 90 0x04>;
        status = "okay";
    };

    rpmsg: rpmsg{
        compatible = "fsl,imx6sx-rpmsg";
        status = "disabled";
    };

    BOARD - arch/arm/boot/dts/<board>.dts:
    reserved-memory {
        #address-cells = <1>;
        #size-cells = <1>;
        ranges;

        rpmsg_reserved: rpmsg@8fff0000 {
            No-map;
            reg = <0x8fff0000 0x10000>;
        };
    };

    &rpmsg {
        vdev-nums = <1>;
        reg = <0x8fff0000 0x10000>;
        status = "okay";
    };

    &uart2 { // adjust to the Zephyr uart console number of your board
        status = "disabled";
    };

You can use the repository bellow as a reference:

https://github.com/diegosueiro/linux-fslc/tree/4.9-1.0.x-imx

Open a serial terminal (minicom, putty, etc.) and connect the board with the
following settings in the UART_2 for colibri_imx7d_m4 and warp7_m4 boards and

> UART_5 for udoo_neo_full_m4 board:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
UART_5 for the udoo_neo_full_m4 board:
```

- Speed: 115200
- Data: 8 bits
- Parity: None
- Stop bits: 1

> Below you will find the instructions to load and run Zephyr on M4 from A7 using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are the instructions to load and run Zephyr on M4 from A7 using
```

u-boot.

> Copy the compiled zephyr.bin to the first EXT partition of the SD card and plug

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Copy the compiled ``zephyr.bin`` to the first EXT partition of the SD card and plug
```

> into the board. Power it up and stop the u-boot execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the SD card into the board. Power up the board and stop the u-boot execution.
```

> Set the u-boot environment variables and run the zephyr.bin from the TCML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the u-boot environment variables and run the ``zephyr.bin`` from the TCML
```

> memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
memory, as described here:
```
